operating system:
it is an interface betwen user & computer
it will provide the environment to create,run and access many applications.

types of operating system:
1.windows - microsoft - userfriendly 
2.android o.s - google - mobile applicant
3.Linux - not related to any company - for IT purpose
4.Mac o.s - apple - mobile/tab applications
5.unix - similar to linux
6.ios - apple - system applications

windows operating system:
1. it is developed by microsoft company in the year 1985
2. it is having GUI ( graphical user interface)
3. it is an userfrienly operating system
disadvantages:
1. it is commercially used operating system(paid)
2. it is a single based operating system -- only one person can use to connect the data
3. it is very less secure than the other o.s
4. is is limited to completely personal usage

Linux Operating system:
--> it is an open source operating system (free of cost)
1. it is developed by Linus tordvalds in the year 1991
2. it is an CLI
3. linux o.s is a type of o.s which is very similar to unix & is built in linux kernal
4. linux kernal is the brain of the o.s because it is an interface between user & computer (hardware,peripherals,resources)
5. multiple users can access this o.s
6. it has very high security features are available when compared with other o.s
7. Linux is a distributed o.s( 600+ linux distributions like redhat,ubuntu,centos,fedora,amazon linux,kali linux,SUSE linux,..)
8. it is an community based o.s(we can modify as per our requirements )
9. it is an user freindly & network friednly o.s
10.linus provides the privacy of users
11.it provides high stability (rarely slowsdown & freezes no need to reboot & restart it will be donne itself directly/immediately)
12.high fliexibility
13.linux is compatible with large no of files
14. linux can perform tasks evenly through it is having less space on its hard disk
15.tree structure

Disadvantages:
1. it is not much userfreindly because begineers can confuse
2. it has smaller peripherals

comparison of linux with operating system:

linux:                                                            windows:
1. open source operating system                                   1. not open source
2. linux is free of cost                                          2. windows is costlier(paid)
3. linux is case sensitve                                         3. it is case insensitive
    PASHA,pasha
4. more efficient                                                 4. less efficient
5. more security                                                  5. less security
6. forward slash is used to separate  the directories             6.back slash is used to separate the files/folders
7. it is hacking based system                                      7. no efficiency in hacking
8. 3 types of users:                                              8. 4 types of users:
  -> regular                                                        -> administration
  -> root                                                           -> standard
  -> service account                                                -> child 
                                                                    -> guest


----------
1.create linux environments (laptops/system/cloud/vmware)
2. we can instal various applications
  --> jenkins - CI/CD for deploying
  --> maven - build tools - building source code
  --> docker - containerization tool - shipping the code
  --> tomcat - webserver
  --> kubernetes - cluster
  --> sonarqube  - checks the code quality
  --> ansible    - monitoring
  